Continuing with the setup of the interface let's take a look at the timelines.
Now we're going to need a grease pencil timeline that we have here.
We're also going to need a dope sheet timeline right here.
So let's choose that.
In addition we're gonna need to see several unrelated channels.
We're going to need to see the grease pencil and we're going to need to be able to see the character
in Poe's mode and see those key frames so this button right here.
This only includes channels relating to selected objects.
We're gonna need to uncheck this because we're gonna want to see everything here on our timeline.
Also when I scroll the mouse wheel here you can see that one timeline can move independently of the
other timeline and even though this is the same time the same thing happening to have them two different
sizes like this can be really confusing.
So what this do is come over here to view analysts choose lock time to other windows and also down here
on this timeline view lock time to other windows.
And there we go.
So now if we scroll and move these around you can see they stay locked together and that's really helpful
as we go forward with this.
Now I think what we ought to do is work on the material of the base object.
Currently it's got the same material that the character does and I don't think that's going to work.
So let's come over here to our shading tab right here and I'll hit the period key to zoom in and let's
just select that one face object and as you can see it's got the character material on it here.
What I'd like to do is create a transparent material here.
It's just a temporary material that we're gonna be using here in blender just so we can see the 2D face
as we're animating and also so we can test it once we render the animation out.
We're going to create a whole new transparent material once we get to unity.
But for here I think it's good to have it while we're testing.
So what let's do is here.
Let's go ahead and remove the character slot for the GEO base idle object I'll just hit the minus button
here and then let's click new and let's give this a new name.
I'm going to call this b m80 for Blender material just so we can keep it straight and then I'll call
this base idle that.
Okay.
So now that we've done that let's try and make it transparent.
To do that I think first we're going to need a transparent shader so let's press shift a and choose
shader transparent.
Right there we go and then we're going to want to mix these two together so let's press shift a and
create a mix shader right here and I'll drop it right here and it'll connect up but I kind of want this
one on the top socket so I'll put that there and the other one will automatically move down and then
I need to connect something up to the factor socket here in the mix shader So what let's do is let's
just create a blank image texture node and just plug that in some of the press Shift A and we'll go
to texture image texture and I don't even need to bring a texture into this I'm just gonna take the
alpha and drag it right over here.
There we go.
Now if we were in eevee that should have worked but if you recall a long time ago we switched over to
cycles render engine to do that bake.
So let's switch back to evey here and then in our materials panel right here.
If we scroll down or twirl down the principal be SDF shader I'll just twirl this down.
Now if we scroll all the way down here under settings we've got a blend mode and we can change this
from opaque to Alpha blend and now we've got a clear material here and that's what we want.
As I said this is a temp material for working on our animation here in blender but I think it'll be
helpful.
All right.
Now that we have that what we should probably do is also UVA map this object because we're going to
be applying 2D textures to it both here in Blender and in unity so we can go over to our U V editing
tab over here and I'll hit the period key and there we go.
So we can get rid of this normal map here we can click the X here and get rid of that.
Now what let's do is just select all of this.
I'll just hover over here and hit the L key and you can see our U V map here from when this was a part
of the character.
Before we do anything let's go ahead and tab into object mode and press control a and let's apply the
rotation and scale here.
Now let's tap back into edit mode.
Press you and unwrap and there we go.
Now it's turned.
I want to turn it.
So this part right here near the chin is at the bottom.
Well let's test can formal here see if that helps that actually helped a bit.
Now didn't it.
So let's do that.
Let's go ahead and turn it over here in the movie Ed all press are 9 0 in that alternate.
Now I'd like to make sure that all of these edges are perfectly straight and of course I want to pack
it into the zero to one space here.
Let's come up to UVA and let's choose pack islands and that puts it in there but I'm going to turn it
uncheck the rotate box here and that puts it within the 0 to 1 space so let's make sure all the edges
are straight here.
I'll press Alt A to D select and then since I'm in vertex mode here I can press the B key and border
select these.
Now I want to ensure that those are perfectly straight up and down.
So what I'll do is right click and then I will choose a line X and that will make those perfectly straight.
Let's do that again here.
Let me zoom out a bit now on select those and then I'll press B and then to this right click the line
X and we go and I'm just gonna go through and do this for all of these you're right.
Click a line X and over here as well OK.
So now we've got those.
Let's do the horizontal ones our border select this and choose a line why now.
And that just ensures that those are all perfectly straight right click align y and be for border select
right click align y.
Okay.
So that ensures that all of that is perfectly straight.
Okay so we have our face you ve mapped.
Now let's now go back to our 2D animation screen layout and let's work on this here.
We can hide some of these objects just in this view.
So all we see is our 2D screen here.
So let's come over to this pull down this object types visibility and let's turn off the mesh visibility
for this view and let's also turn off the armature visibility.
There we go.
And then over here in overlays we could turn off the grid right here we go.
All right.
I think that looks pretty good.
I just wanted that clean.
So all we see is our 2D strokes.
And then let's go ahead and create our grease pencil object that we'll be using to actually draw the
face.
So with the cursor still here in the center of the face what I'll do is go ahead and press shift a and
I'll choose grease pencil and blank.
And that pops it right into where the 3D cursor is.
Now we've got this object over here it's called g pencil.
Let's change the name to GP face.
There we go.
OK.
And now we need to parent it to that head bone just like we did the face object.
So with this selected let's go ahead and shift click the bone.
Oh we better go into Po's mode here.
So I'm going to select that GP base shift click the bone and then shift click it again.
Now it's press control P and parent it to the bone.
So if we choose the head bone now up here and here are two times we can roll that around and we can
see that the grease pencil object comes along for the ride.
That's good.
OK.
Now the last thing I want to get rid of this relationship line and that origin.
So once again we can come over to overlays and turn off the relationship line and the origin there.
So we've got a nice clean interface ready to go for us.
Oh and one last thing.
Let's go ahead and hide the bones.
So let's shift click this layer too.
And there we go.
All right.
So I think everything is in place.
Now we've got the grease pencil object the face.
Idle object.
All parents to the head bone our timelines sync up and our 2D view all cleaned up as well.
So in the next video what let's do is begin drawing out the face of the character.